can you believe it i've been doing
marketing for 20 years so many i can't
even hold up my hands on how many years
and i've learned some really important
things that you need to know about
hey everyone i'm neil patel and today
i'm gonna break down 20 years of
marketing the seven most important
lessons i learned
before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click the alert notification
now you've been doing marketing for a
while or you're a business owner or
you're just getting started in marketing
now question for you what's the most
important lesson you learned
leave a comment below letting me know
that lesson
so let's start off with the first lesson
start small but look out for scale
okay so here's what i mean by that
when you start small you don't want to
just go into a marketing camp and be
like i'm going to spend a million
dollars i'm going to spend 10 million
i know that's the extreme example but
depending on your budget it could be i'm
going to spend 10 grand i'm going to
spend five grand whatever it may be if
you start too fast what i found is most
people fail
even at my size and i'm not the biggest
company but we're a large corporation
depending on how you define it or we at
least have over 500 employees
when you think about my company we can
spend millions of dollars on marketing
heck i was spending 100 grand a month on
tv ads but you know what and that was
just for fun and it wasn't driving
really any conversions
but you know what when we're thinking
about scale typically i start off small
when i mean small i'm talking not five
thousand not ten thousand i usually
start off less than a thousand dollars
even at our size and i try to see what
works it doesn't mean i won't ramp up
the next day to ten thousand or a
hundred thousand but i really try to
start off small to try to figure out
what works now if i'm paying for
services or hiring an agency it's a
little bit different because someone's
creating a plan for me and then
executing on it but if i'm doing it
myself i try to start off small because
just because a channel or a tactic
worked for a competitor it doesn't mean
it works for me so i try to start off
small some channels when you're starting
off small you may have to start up at a
bigger dollar amount and then it can
scale up from there but that's the first
lesson i learned because every time i
just go knee deep and start big i
usually just waste money and time but
when i start off small it quickly gives
me signals of hey this could potentially
work this is working or this is a waste
of time and you should move on to
something else for now
and that saves you so much time
the second lesson i ended up learning my
biggest skill set and my buddy eric's
always talks about this
is i execute extremely fast speed is
everything i used to wait for my website
to be perfect my copy to be perfect and
i learned this from frank kern he's an
amazing copywriter and he once told me
neil it's not about how well your copy
is written it's better to have copy
that's customized for every different
approach than it is to have perfectly
well-written copy in other words he even
broke it down even simpler saying it's
better to have some copy than nothing
and even if you have really well-written
copy it doesn't mean it's going to
convert so i focus on executing fast and
then adapting and a b testing and
tweaking to make it better over time
it's just like a website design
everyone's like oh i'm going to release
a new website we don't do that we just
continually a b test our websites until
we come up with the perfect variation
and then you can have someone tweak the
designs and make sure it works but
that's the model we use
the third one
learn from your mistakes look i don't
care if you're elon musk
doesn't matter how smart you are we all
make mistakes elon musk sent rockets
into shape space
but do you know what happened with some
of the first rockets
it went up and it came down elon musk is
smarter than me just because some of his
rockets didn't go up into space doesn't
mean he's not smart or successful we all
know he already is he can do anything i
do 10 times better
but here's the thing i don't care who
you are you're going to make a mistake
but learn from it elon eventually got
his raucous into space why because he
learned from the mistakes and
continually adapted he didn't give up he
just more so learned from his mistakes
and keep using the learnings to his
advantage in marketing you're going to
make a lot of mistakes when i first
started out my career when i was a 16
year old kid keep in mind i was really
young i'd be like black seo what's this
let's try oh cool i'm raking at top
making money now times are changing i
would never recommend anyone to do that
i was a foolish 16 year old kid i wish i
had a time machine i can go back in time
and tell myself
don't do that again
the next lesson
hire people who have done it before
this one i actually didn't learn until
roughly a year ago
so the way i usually build my businesses
is you build a business you keep
learning from your failures and mistakes
and then you just keep at it and you
just keep going you execute fast you
know and
hopefully things work out but what i
learned and this took me a long time to
learn
there's other people out there who have
been where i am
been where i want to be which is even
better and they've solved the problems
for my competitors and if they've worked
for not just one competitor but two
competitors and they've done it multiple
times successfully
before then what i do is i go to them
and i try to hire those people and poach
them from my competition
because if they were successful once at
what you're trying to solve let's say
i'm looking for a ceo who's built a big
ad agency and my ad agency np digital
was is one of the fastest growing ad
agencies out there
i don't deserve that credit for that my
team deserves the credit for that
they're the ones who created it not me
and the way they did it is i hired
people who did it before so my ceo mike
gullickson he was running operations at
i crossing which was an ad agency that
got acquired by hers then he was the ceo
of cavario which was the ad agency that
got acquired by iprospect which is a
company owned by densu
and then he became the president of io
prospect and helped them grow even more
so when i was looking for a ceo who knew
how to build you know a much bigger
business 100 million a billion dollar
business etc i looked for someone who
has already done it before hire them and
when i hired him my business started
growing faster
instead of me learning from my mistakes
he already knew what mistakes to avoid
instead of me having to worry on
execution getting stuff done here any
new people who could execute on each and
every single marketing task or business
task faster and better than me because
they've done it before
that's the key to hiring people who've
done it before but remember
they had to
done exactly what you're looking to do
not once but twice successfully before
because once could always be luck twice
means they're usually good and when
they've done it twice look at those
companies look at their linkedin profile
did they continually get promotions at
those companies because if they did
someone else saw them to be valuable and
they must have done well to get those
promotions so the chances are they're
not twice and got promotions in those
previous companies they can do it a
third time
next one be consistent look i can't tell
you how many times
that
people would have had a massive business
and done well in their marketing if they
were just consistent
if you're consistent you'll do well
great example of this is my blog i do
well on neilpatel.com better than most
marketing blogs because i've just done
it for longer and i don't give up
next lesson build a brand nike bmw
american express airbnb
you know you don't see these companies
from just being out there not doing
anything they build brands even when you
look at new companies like ftx the
crypto exchange company they built a
brand and they built it and they're
focused on because they realize the
power of it people make purchasing
decisions based off the brand you look
at mlb umpires they have a ftx logo you
look at the miami heat arena no longer
the miami heat arena it's the ftx arena
you go look at uh lewis hamilton
mercedes formula one driver you'll see
ftx there so when you constantly put
your brand and associate it with
influencers or other trustworthy
elements or other things that you know
people are paying attention to it helps
build a brand and that builds longevity
last but not least make it easy for
people to buy from you if you make it
hard no one's gonna really buy from you
paypal shopify pay these are all
solutions that make it really easy you
know when we implemented paypal on our
checkout page for uber suggests did you
know we got roughly at 18 increasing
conversions literally all we did is add
paypal as a payment option now more than
18 of our customers use paypal but
before paypal literally if we got 100
conversions we ended up with 118 after
paypal now what portion you pay through
paypal or pay through other sources like
credit card using stripe or add-in or
anything like that it varies but just
adding paypal as a payment option
because it's super simple
roughly 18 increase
if you need help with your marketing you
want to succeed you want someone who's
done it there before and can help you go
check out my ad agency np digital if you
enjoyed the video like it share tell the
people about it thank you for watching